---
published: false
title: Germany, reflecting on my experience so far
date: 2018-08-24
categories: [misc, germany]
---

Since my time in Switzerland, I noticed I go through a cycle when moving to a new country : `novelty -> culture shock -> feeling of not belonging -> appreciate the good parts and cope with the rest`.
The goal of this short writing is to try to objectively compare the good and bad points (from my point of view).
As I live in Munich this will mostly be bavarian centric.

## The good

* Free highways !
  * Relatively easy access to the Alps and ski resorts.
* Schatzkammer, a type of museum very common here, some of which contain the most beatiful pieces of jewellery I have ever seen (period).
  * The [statuette of St Georges][0] in the Munich residence.
  * The [Golden Horse][1] in Altoetting (this was done in Paris :-)
  * The ivory and lapis lazuli [coin cabinet][2] from Angermair.
  * And hopefully many more pleasant discoveries in the future
* A have the feeling that the conservation policy for monuments is different in Germany compared to France.
  * In France most of what you will see has been conserved to reflect its whole history.
  * In Germany you frequently see buildings restored to their former glory (love the sparkles :-)
  * Could also well be that many of them were actually destroyed ...
* The memory effort to show visitors the underlying mechanisms that allowed national socialism to control german society.
  * The chilling effect of seing this applied nowadays in other countries ...
* The peaceful streets of Munich, with its pastel colored buildings and shade trees.
* Sweet treats like Kaiserschmarrn, Rote Gruetze, black forest Kirschtorte ...
* This is purely subjective but fruits (at least the kind I usually eat) taste better.
  * This could explain the excellent schnaps quality (mostly in Tyrol though).


## The bad

* Sweets are nice, but man, the rest of the food is just terrible :-(
  * Can somebody explain me what is the dealio with schnitzel ? I do not dislike it, but why is it on the menu of very german restaurant under the sun ?
  * Dishonorable mention to : kaesespaetzle, kaesekrainer. 
  * Imagine my disappointment when trying Nueremberg sausages. They taste like grease and smoke. I would kill right now for a saucisse de morteau.
* Why do people like to waste their time going to different shops to buy their car shampoo and their groceries ? Can you just have hypermarkets and move on ?
* The flat land around Muenchen is boring for motorcycling.
* Has any german engineer ever conceived the idea of repairing a country road **one lane** at a time ? Instead they love to close the whole damn thing and send people on "umleitung".
  * Kid you not, this happens about every 40km when you travel on small roads.


## The (really) ugly

* Stau, stau, stau everywhere you go !
* What do Austria, France, Italy, Switzerland (and probably many other countries) have in common ? They have self car washing facilities at gas stations.
  * Pay 1eur and rince your car after a ski trip to wash off the salt. So convinient, why people here always have to live life in hard mode ?
* Why can you not understand that my family name is composed of 2 separate words ? No, my first name is **not Marino** for pete's sake.
* EC cards : burn them ! Please just use the same standards as the rest of the western world use.
  * I just love to scavenge for ATMs to pay 600EUR cash to the car mechanic.
  * And **please stop** calling them "german cards", that just confuses and angers tourists.

### German language is beginner unfriendly

I often heard about german : "once you know the rules, the language will be clear to you". 
That turned out to be a **load of BS**. German is the most [irregular language][3] I have come across.
It is like if the language was designed to kick you in the nut sack

F\*ck you german grammar.

### Why do I perceive people as rude so often ?

This has puzzled me for a while. I think it mostly boils down to "people will be nicer once I speak german".
Anyhow, here is a list of reasons why this is all in my head :

* I mostly address people in English. If you are not used to another language I can understand you will adopt a direct style that can shock by its lack of politeness mannerism.
  * People (me first) get frustrated when they cannot fully express themselves.
  * However german has modal verbs, with similar usages. I would think that may encourage their use when people are speaking english.
* I am not used to the sound of german, so I percieve it as sounding aggresive.
  * I am still getting over the fact an ugly sounding word (to my romance-language-centric ear) like "schmuck" means jewel.
* Maybe being polite here actually means go straight to the point and cut the politeness cr\*p.
* The usage of exclamation marks when using the imperative form is not considered aggresive here.
* Google translate usually has a gloomy tone when tranlating german (try it on a speeding ticket !)
* This is kind of snow balling, given past experience, now I am much more defensive when interacting with strangers.

### F\*ck you random bavarian

I am sure the country is full of wonderful people. But let me just salute with my middle finger the following characters :

* I had the absolutely worst experience interacting with custom officers when moving my stuff.
  * It is not like me or all of the unlucky eastern european truck drivers that cross the border are going to learn german any time soon...
* In many fancy restaurants, waiters will not smile nor greet you when you leave.
  * Special mention to pizzeria europa. Once they notice you are a foreigner, they will insult you as they serve you.
* Car dealership receptionists will hang-up on you once they hear a word of english.
* Doctor assistants that yell at you in german hoping the increase in volume will make you understand what they saying.
* Shop clerks that give you a contemptuous look as soon you enter the their store.
* People on the street that approach you to ask for directions and then ignore you once you reply in english.

### Thank you random bavarian

To counter balance the previous list, here are some positive examples :

* Police officers are usually respectful and speak english.

[0]:https://de.wikipedia.org/wiki/St.-Georgs-Statuette
[1]:https://de.wikipedia.org/wiki/Goldenes_R%C3%B6ssl
[2]:https://www.bayerisches-nationalmuseum.de/index.php?id=487&L=1%27&tx_paintingdb_pi%5Bp%5D=3&cHash=67f70d4caa29f5374288d807a3203370
[3]:{% post_url language/0000-00-00-german-grammar-primer %}

